dev/commands/git/checkout-default.md, before:

---
description: Checkout default branch and pull latest changes
allowed-tools: Bash(git *)
---

# Checkout Default Command

Checkout the default branch and pull the latest changes.

Follow these steps:
1. Stash any uncommitted changes with `git stash push -u -m "Auto-stash before checkout-default"`
   - The `-u` flag includes untracked files
   - Note whether changes were stashed (git will output "No local changes to save" if nothing to stash)
2. Get the default branch name (usually `main` or `master`):
   - Use `git symbolic-ref refs/remotes/origin/HEAD | sed 's@^refs/remotes/origin/@@'`
   - This ensures we checkout the correct default branch for the repository
3. Checkout the default branch with `git checkout <branch-name>`
4. Pull the most recent changes with `git pull`
5. If changes were stashed in step 1, apply them with `git stash pop`
   - Handle any merge conflicts if they occur
6. Display confirmation that you're now on the default branch with the latest changes

Important notes:
- This command is typically used after merging a PR or when you need to return to the default branch
- Stashing ensures you don't lose any uncommitted work when switching branches
- Always pull after checking out to ensure you have the latest changes
- Stashed changes are automatically reapplied after pulling

Commit message:

Improve workflow commands with early change detection and optimizations
Enhanced several workflow commands to be more efficient by checking for changes before proceeding with operations. This prevents unnecessary git operations and provides better user feedback when there's nothing to do.

Changes:
- checkout-default: Only stash if there are uncommitted changes
- commit: Check for changes early and skip commit if nothing to commit, while still allowing push
- pr/update: Only commit and push if there are uncommitted changes
- pr/merge: Inline the checkout-default logic to avoid nested command calls

dev/commands/git/checkout-default.md, after:

---
description: Checkout default branch and pull latest changes
allowed-tools: Bash(git *)
---

# Checkout Default Command

Checkout the default branch and pull the latest changes.

Follow these steps:
1. Check if there are any uncommitted changes with `git status --porcelain`
2. If there are changes, stash them with `git stash push -u -m "Auto-stash before checkout-default"`
   - The `-u` flag includes untracked files
   - Note that changes were stashed
3. Get the default branch name (usually `main` or `master`):
   - Use `git symbolic-ref refs/remotes/origin/HEAD | sed 's@^refs/remotes/origin/@@'`
   - This ensures we checkout the correct default branch for the repository
4. Checkout the default branch with `git checkout <branch-name>`
5. Pull the most recent changes with `git pull`
6. If changes were stashed in step 2, apply them with `git stash pop`
   - Handle any merge conflicts if they occur
7. Display confirmation that you're now on the default branch with the latest changes

Important notes:
- This command is typically used after merging a PR or when you need to return to the default branch
- Only stashes if there are uncommitted changes
- Stashing ensures you don't lose any uncommitted work when switching branches
- Always pull after checking out to ensure you have the latest changes
- Stashed changes are automatically reapplied after pulling
