dev/commands/git/commit.md, before:

---
description: Stage changes and commit, with optional push to remote
argument-hint: [push]
allowed-tools: Bash(git *)
---

# Commit Command

Automate the workflow to stage changes and create a commit. Optionally push to remote.

The command accepts an optional argument:
- No argument: Stage and commit only
- `push`: Stage, commit, and push to remote

Follow these steps:
1. Check the current branch - **NEVER run this command on main or master branches**. If on main/master, abort and warn the user to switch branches first.
2. Run `git status` to see all untracked files and changes
3. Run `git diff` to see staged and unstaged changes
4. Run `git log --oneline -5` to understand recent commit history and message style
5. Analyze all changes and draft an appropriate commit message that:
   - Summarizes the nature of changes (new feature, enhancement, bug fix, etc.)
   - Is concise (1-2 sentences) focusing on the "why" rather than "what"
   - Follows the repository's commit message style
6. Stage all relevant files with `git add`
7. Create the commit with an appropriate commit message
8. If the `push` argument was provided, push the branch to remote with `git push -u origin [branch-name]`

Important notes:
- **NEVER commit on main or master branches** - always require a feature branch
- Never commit files that likely contain secrets (.env, credentials.json, etc.)
- Use a HEREDOC for commit messages to ensure proper formatting
- Only commit changes explicitly related to the current work

Commit message:

Improve workflow commands with early change detection and optimizations (#10)
Enhanced several workflow commands to be more efficient by checking for changes before proceeding with operations. This prevents unnecessary git operations and provides better user feedback when there's nothing to do.

Changes:
- checkout-default: Only stash if there are uncommitted changes
- commit: Check for changes early and skip commit if nothing to commit, while still allowing push
- pr/update: Only commit and push if there are uncommitted changes
- pr/merge: Inline the checkout-default logic to avoid nested command calls

dev/commands/git/commit.md, after:

---
description: Stage changes and commit, with optional push to remote
argument-hint: [push]
allowed-tools: Bash(git *)
---

# Commit Command

Automate the workflow to stage changes and create a commit. Optionally push to remote.

The command accepts an optional argument:
- No argument: Stage and commit only
- `push`: Stage, commit, and push to remote

Follow these steps:
1. Check the current branch - **NEVER run this command on main or master branches**. If on main/master, abort and warn the user to switch branches first.
2. Check if there are any changes with `git status --porcelain`
3. If no changes exist:
   - Inform the user there's nothing to commit
   - If the `push` argument was provided, still push the branch to ensure remote is up to date with `git push -u origin [branch-name]`
   - Stop the process
4. Run `git status` to see all untracked files and changes
5. Run `git diff` to see staged and unstaged changes
6. Run `git log --oneline -5` to understand recent commit history and message style
7. Analyze all changes and draft an appropriate commit message that:
   - Summarizes the nature of changes (new feature, enhancement, bug fix, etc.)
   - Is concise (1-2 sentences) focusing on the "why" rather than "what"
   - Follows the repository's commit message style
8. Stage all relevant files with `git add`
9. Create the commit with an appropriate commit message
10. If the `push` argument was provided, push the branch to remote with `git push -u origin [branch-name]`

Important notes:
- **NEVER commit on main or master branches** - always require a feature branch
- Checks for changes early to avoid unnecessary operations
- If no changes and push requested, still pushes to sync with remote
- Never commit files that likely contain secrets (.env, credentials.json, etc.)
- Use a HEREDOC for commit messages to ensure proper formatting
- Only commit changes explicitly related to the current work
