dev/commands/github/pr/update.md, before:

---
description: Update the PR for the current branch and optionally change draft status
argument-hint: [draft|publish]
allowed-tools: SlashCommand, Bash(git *), Bash(gh *)
---

# Update PR Command

Update the pull request associated with the current branch. Push new commits and optionally mark as draft or ready for review.

The command accepts an optional argument:
- No argument: Just push changes and update the PR
- `draft`: Mark the PR as draft
- `publish`: Mark the PR as ready for review

Follow these steps:
1. Get the current branch with `git branch --show-current`
2. Check if a PR exists for this branch using `gh pr view --json number,title,isDraft`
3. If no PR is found:
   - Notify the user that no PR exists for this branch
   - Stop the process - do not continue
4. Use the SlashCommand tool to run `/dev:git:commit push` to stage, commit, and push changes
5. If an argument was provided:
   - If `draft`: Mark as draft using `gh pr ready --undo <pr-number>`
   - If `publish`: Mark as ready using `gh pr ready <pr-number>`
6. Display the PR URL and status to the user

Important notes:
- The command will stop immediately if there's no PR for the current branch
- Use `gh pr ready` to mark as ready for review
- Use `gh pr ready --undo` to convert back to draft
- The PR description/title is not updated, only commits and draft status

Commit message:

Improve workflow commands with early change detection and optimizations (#10)
Enhanced several workflow commands to be more efficient by checking for changes before proceeding with operations. This prevents unnecessary git operations and provides better user feedback when there's nothing to do.

Changes:
- checkout-default: Only stash if there are uncommitted changes
- commit: Check for changes early and skip commit if nothing to commit, while still allowing push
- pr/update: Only commit and push if there are uncommitted changes
- pr/merge: Inline the checkout-default logic to avoid nested command calls

dev/commands/github/pr/update.md, after:

---
description: Update the PR for the current branch and optionally change draft status
argument-hint: [draft|publish]
allowed-tools: SlashCommand, Bash(git *), Bash(gh *)
---

# Update PR Command

Update the pull request associated with the current branch. Push new commits and optionally mark as draft or ready for review.

The command accepts an optional argument:
- No argument: Just push changes and update the PR
- `draft`: Mark the PR as draft
- `publish`: Mark the PR as ready for review

Follow these steps:
1. Get the current branch with `git branch --show-current`
2. Check if a PR exists for this branch using `gh pr view --json number,title,isDraft`
3. If no PR is found:
   - Notify the user that no PR exists for this branch
   - Stop the process - do not continue
4. Check if there are uncommitted changes with `git status --porcelain`
5. If there are changes:
   - Use the SlashCommand tool to run `/dev:git:commit push` to stage, commit, and push changes
6. If no changes:
   - Inform the user that there are no changes to push
7. If an argument was provided:
   - If `draft`: Mark as draft using `gh pr ready --undo <pr-number>`
   - If `publish`: Mark as ready using `gh pr ready <pr-number>`
8. Display the PR URL and status to the user

Important notes:
- The command will stop immediately if there's no PR for the current branch
- Only commits and pushes if there are uncommitted changes
- Use `gh pr ready` to mark as ready for review
- Use `gh pr ready --undo` to convert back to draft
- The PR description/title is not updated, only commits and draft status
